A Subnet mask is a 32 bit number which is similar to IP address.
It divides the IP address into network address and host address.

Subnetting is used to divide a network into various subnet in order to increase performance and security.
It is called a subnet mask because it is used to identify network address of an IP address by perfoming
a bitwise AND operation on the netmask.



NAT:-
	Network Address Translation (NAT) is the process where a network device, usually a firewall, assigns
 a public address to a computer (or group of computers) inside a private network.

The private addressing scheme works well for computers that only have to access resources inside the network,
 like workstations needing access to file servers and printers. Routers inside the private network can route 
traffic between private addresses with no trouble. However, to access resources outside the network, like the
 Internet, these computers have to have a public address in order for responses to their requests to return 
to them. This is where NAT comes into play.

Internet requests that require Network Address Translation (NAT) are quite complex but happen so rapidly that
 the end user rarely knows it has occurred. A workstation inside a network makes a request to a computer on 
the Internet. Routers within the network recognize that the request is not for a resource inside the network, 
so they send the request to the firewall. The firewall sees the request from the computer with the internal IP.
 It then makes the same request to the Internet using its own public address, and returns the response from
 the Internet resource to the computer inside the private network. From the perspective of the resource on the 
Internet, it is sending information to the address of the firewall. From the perspective of the workstation,
 it appears that communication is directly with the site on the Internet. When NAT is used in this way, all 
users inside the private network access the Internet have the same public IP address when they use the Internet. 
That means only one public addresses is needed for hundreds or even thousands of users.

