Ciphers are nothing but cryptographic systems.

A Cipher is simply an algorithm for performing both encryption and decryption of a message.

Some of the different types of Ciphers are:-

Caeser Cipher:-
	It is a cipher in which each letter in a alphabet is shifted to some other alphabet.
The number by which the alphabet is shifted is the "KEY" of encryption. It is between 0 and 25.

This cipher can fail because there are only 26 possible keys to try out.

Simple Substitution Cipher:-
	 Instead of shifting the alphabets by some number, this scheme 
uses some permutation of the letters in alphabet.

With 26 letters in alphabet, the possible permutations are 26! (Factorial of 26) which is 
equal to 4x10^26. The sender and the receiver may choose any one of these possible permutation
 as a ciphertext alphabet. This permutation is the secret key of the scheme.

Transposition Cipher:-
	It is another type of cipher where the order of the alphabets in the plaintext is
 rearranged to create the ciphertext. The actual plaintext alphabets are not replaced.
A key is selected and a table with as many columns as the key is drawn and the message is
written in that. The same message when read vertically gives the ciphretext which is sent.
The receiver also constructs a table with the number of columns same as that of the key
and writes down the message and gets back the plain text.


There are some more ciphers such as Vignere cipher , Playfair cipher, Block cipher and many 
more.

Ciphers should be chosen according to the situation and according to the complexity.
Ciphers can fail easily when the key can be found out easily. Hence the key should be 
chosen such that it cannot be found out from Brute force attacks and exhaustive searches.
The key length also should be preferably longer as it gets difficult to find the key as it 
gets longer.


3. Message confidentiality can be achieved by using both symmetric and assymetric methods simultaneosly.
First the sender encrypts the message using key of the symmetric method.The encrypted message is then again encrypted
using the public key of the receiver.The doubly encrypted message is then sent to the reciever.

The receiver then decrypts the message using his private key.He agains decrypts the message using the symmetric method key
and get back the original message . This is better because the message wont get leaked even if one key is leaked.

 
 


